<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

### Table of Contents

-   [zip][1]
    -   [Parameters][2]
    -   [Examples][3]
-   [zipAll][4]
    -   [Parameters][5]
    -   [Examples][6]

## zip

Creates a sequence of arrays the same length as the _shortest_ iterable provided. The first array contains the first
element from each of the iterables provided. The second array contains the second element from each of the
iterables provided, and so on. For each array, zip must wait for all iterables to advance. For this reason, zip can be
no faster than the slowest iterable. Backpressure is provided by the iterating code.

Use zipAll if you want all iterables to be consumed. Use merge if you want to consume iterables as fast as possible, and
don't need the elements paired.

### Parameters

-   `iterables` **...any** 

### Examples

```javascript
const a = [0, 1, 2]
const b = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd'] // this array is longer than a
const c = await chainable.zip(a, b).toArray()
console.log(c) // prints [[0, 'a'], [1, 'b'], [2, 'c']]
```

Returns **AsyncGenerator** merged iterables as async iterable

## zipAll

Creates a sequence of arrays the same length as the _longest_ iterable provided. The first array contains the first
element from each of the iterables provided. The second array contains the second element from each of the
iterables provided, and so on. Missing elements from the shorter iterables are set to undefined. For each array,
zip must wait for all iterables to advance. For this reason, zip can be no faster than the slowest iterable.
Backpressure is provided by the iterating code.

Use zip if you want iteration to stop when any iterable is consumed. Use merge if you want to consume iterables as
fast as possible, and don't need the elements paired.

### Parameters

-   `iterables` **...any** 

### Examples

```javascript
const a = [0, 1, 2]
const b = ['a', 'b', 'c', 'd'] // this array is longer than a
const c = await chainable.zipAll(a, b).toArray()
console.log(c) // prints [[0, 'a'], [1, 'b'], [2, 'c'], [undefined, 'd']]
```

Returns **AsyncGenerator** merged iterables as async iterable

[1]: #zip

[2]: #parameters

[3]: #examples

[4]: #zipall

[5]: #parameters-1

[6]: #examples-1
